First Name Last Name
Room 123 MIT Dorm, 987 Institute Drive  •  Cambridge, MA 02139  •  Phone: 617-xxx-xxxx  •  Email: Freshman@mit.edu
Education  Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT)  Cambridge, MA
Candidate for Bachelor of Science in Biology  June 2019
Coursework includes: Calculus, Electricity and Magnetism.
Southtown High School  Southtown, NS
V aledictorian in class of 128 students; SAT: 2260, ACT: 33  May 2015
Relevant Courses: AP Calculus, AP Statistics, AP Biology.
Leadership  MIT Undergraduate Giving Campaign  Cambridge, MA
Experience  Class of 2019 Co-Chair  November 2015
•   T rained 12 members from the freshman class in fundraising activities, such as how to ask for a 
donation and how to properly document a donation.
•   Organized a week-long schedule for the 12 members and myself to work at a booth to ask for 
donations.
•   Achieved 31% participation within the freshman class, higher than that of the sophomores and 
juniors.
•   Raised $1,250 from the freshman class for the MIT Public Service Center.
High School Newspaper  Southtown, NS
Chief Editor   August 2014-May 2015
•   Proofread each article and authored two to three articles per issue. 
•   Printed one 24-page newspaper per month for 10 months.
•   Oversaw staff of 14 students. Answered questions regarding articles and page design.
Assistant Editor  August 2012-May 2013
Sports Editor  August 2011-May 2012
Relay For Life  W . Southtown, NS
Team Captain  April 2013
•   Organized a team of 15 students for the Relay for Life. 
•   Coordinated fund-raising efforts through the Beta Club, an organization for students with all A’s. 
•   Raised $500 for cancer research.
Work  Ar ea Supermarkets  W . Southtown, NS
Experience  Clerk and Bagger   January 2013-May 2013
•   Provided customer service to 100+ people per day. Bagged groceries and received cashier training. 
Taco Bell  W . Southtown, NS
Team Member   June 2012-January 2013
•   Received cashier and food handling training, worked in a fast-paced environment, and 
experienced assembly-line teamwork. Served 100+ people per day.
Activities  MIT Varsity Track & Field Team  September 2015-Present
& Awards  Team Member, Pole Vaulting.
High School Varsity Athletics  August 2011-May 2015
T rack and Field, Captain; Football, Team Member; Wrestling, Team Member.
STAR Student Award  March 2014
A warded to the senior from each high school in Newstate with the highest SAT score.
Havoline Scholar Athlete Award  December 2013
 Presented by The National Football Foundation and College Hall of Fame, Inc. to the top 40 scholar 
athletes in the state of Newstate.
Skills Computer:  Microsoft Word, Excel and PowerPoint
Carpentry: Framing, Masonry, Household Electrical Wiring, Flooring, Roofing, Plumbing.Sample Resumes
First-Year Resume Sample
First-Year Resume Sample
University Address  H ome Address
300 Memorial Drive  4000 Home St.
Cambridge, MA 02139  H ometown, NY 12345
EDUCATION
Massachusetts Institute of T echnology (MIT)  Class of 2019
-   Candidate for Bachelor’s in Managerial Science with a Concentration in Finance Cambridge, MA
-   SA T: 2160, GPA N/A
-   C urrent Coursework: Differential Equations, Macroeconomics, Biology, Freshmen/Alumni Summer Internship Program 
(F/ASIP)
-   R elevant Courses: Multivariable Calculus, AP Calculus BC, AP Statistics, AP Biology
LEADERSHIP EXPERIENCES
UROP-Diabetes Management Project  F ebruary 2016-Present
Research Assistant  Cambridge, MA
-   R esearch different areas of diabetes management including aspects in both technology and lifestyle
-   Analyz e qualitatively and quantitatively information from patient surveys
GRT Selection Committee  F ebruary 2016-Present
Student Member  Cambridge, MA
-   Collaborate with 15 team members to dictate procedure on how to pick the next GRT
-   Conduct behavioral interviews for the candidates
-   V ote on which candidates will be considered
Procrastibaking Baking Club  N ovember 2015-Present
Treasurer  Cambridge, MA
-   M anage approximately $1,100 in club funds and reimburses the President’s expenses
-   R esponsible for budgeting multiple club events, which provide customer satisfaction to all 45 participants
Maseeh Hall Executive Committee  D ecember 2015-Present
Floor 2 Representative  Cambridge, MA
-   M anage a $1,000 budget to put on events such as “study-breaks”, social events, which include free food to 30 people and time to 
take a break from work
-   P rovide for the maintenance of 150 floor members’ needs by both buying products that are necessary for the floor and helping 
students with any personal problems
Robotics/Engineering Club  S eptember 2012-June 2015
VP of Community Relations, Treasurer, Build T eam Member  S eaford, NY
-   Raised $9,000 by pitching advertising packages to local businesses in order to fund the team
-   P resented projects to judges, which helped win the All Star Rookie Award and the Highest Seeded Rookie Award, resulting in the 
team going to Worlds
-   Coached new members on how to present themselves to businesses and judges
WORK EXPERIENCE
MIT Admissions Representative  S eptember 2015- Present
Student Representative  Cambridge, MA
-   A ddress student’s concerns about the application process through the phone and email, answering 100 questions per shift when 
deadlines are approaching 
-   C reate expense reports to reimburse admissions counselors for their business expenses
Tarallo’s Pizzeria  S eptember 2014-August 2015
Counter Position  S eaford, NY
-   W orked as a cashier; Received food, phone, and cleaning training, worked in a fast-paced environment, while keeping impatient 
and hungry customers calm
SKILLS/INTERESTS
Computer: Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Basic Java
Language: Fluent in reading and writing Spanish, Proficient in Speaking Spanish
Interests: Dancing, Lifting Weights, T rying different types of foodMIT  
STUDENTAs a first-year undergrad you can include 
GPA N/A on your resume until you receive an official MIT GPA (typically at the end of your second semester).
Jane Doe
School Address:  someone@mit.edu  Home Address:
XXX Memorial Dr.  (XXX) XXX-XXXX  Someplace, MA
Cambridge, MA 02139
Education  MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE  OF  TECHNOLOGY (M.I.T.)  CAMBRIDGE, MA
Candidate for B.S. in Biology, GPA: 4.6/5.0  20XX
•  Concentration in Management at Sloan Business School and Minor in Brain and Cognitive Sciences.
•   Authored 5 publications in the MIT Undergraduate Research Journal and other peer-reviewed journals.
•  Relevant Coursework: Finance Theory, Economics of the Health Care Industry, Strategic Decision-Making in Life
Sciences, Building a Biomedical Business, Cancer Genetics and Therapies, Cellular Neurobiology, Immunology.
Experience  PUTNAM ASSOCIATES  BURLINGTON, MA
Analyst  20XX
•  Evaluated in 6-member team whether client’s marketing strategy for its $100M organ transplant drug effectively
targets key decision-makers in transplant community. Client implemented proposed improvements in message
content and delivery, designed to increase prescriptions for product by nearly 30%.
•  Managed recruitment and interviewing process of 98 physicians to obtain primary data for marketing case. Analyzed
data from interviews and secondary research in Excel/Access. Prepared PowerPoint deck for presentation to client.
• Analyzed past product switches from predecessor to successor drugs for independent project. Presented recommendations  
for future drug launches. Developed a database providing key criteria for launching various types of drugs.
MIT PROGRAMS ON THE PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRY  CAMBRIDGE, MA
Health Economics Research Assistant, Sloan Business School  20XX
•  Designed, created, and tested a strategic model for the pharmaceutical industry that analyzes safety, efficacy,
and economics to forecast (prior to clinical trials) which drugs will succeed on the market. Early elimination of
inadequate drugs will significantly reduce the $800M spent to successfully launch a drug.
MERCK & CO., INC.  RAHWAY, NJ
Pharmaceutical Laboratory Research Assistant, Infectious Disease Department  20XX
•  Identified deficiencies in Type 2 Diabetes drugs on the market and screened chemicals on new cellular targets to
develop an efficient drug without these shortcomings. Drug predicted to obtain substantially greater market share inthe $14B oral Type 2 Diabetes drug market compared to competitors.
MIT CENTER FOR CANCER RESEARCH  CAMBRIDGE, MA
Academic Laboratory Research Assistant, Housman Laboratory  20XX - 20XX
•  Developed a product to recognize activity of a cancer-causing gene, aiding in discovery of drug for brain cancer.
Engaged in all stages of product development: identification of market need, engineering of product, collaboratingwith industry for testing, production, and marketing of final drug.
•  Designed a new sequencing technique that refines a common laboratory protocol. New procedure increases
efficiency by 50% on average, reducing processing time by 25%, and creating more usable biological end-product.
Leadership  MARCH OF DIMES BIRTH DEFECTS FOUNDATION  BOSTON, MA
Director of Massachusetts Youth Public Affairs  20XX - Present
•  Lobbied legislators to encourage federal, Massachusetts, and California governments to develop public policies to
improve the health of women. Introduced and promoted 10 Senate Bills, 4 of which have been approved thus far.
•   Represented Foundation on the Massachusetts State Public Affairs Committee.
•   Organized conferences and fundraisers as a volunteer for the past 7 years (1998-Present).
JOURNAL OF YOUNG INVESTIGATORS  CAMBRIDGE, MA
Story Editor and Science Journalist  20XX - Present
•   Managed 25 science journalists, delegated writing and editing tasks, and chose articles to print in monthly journal.
•   Created daily digests about current science news, distributed to all science journalists.
SCIENCE & ENGINEERING BUSINESS CLUB  CAMBRIDGE, MA
Consulting Focus Group Organizing Committee  20XX - Present
•   Organized 6 campus-wide information session to educate students about careers in consulting and law.
•   Selected and worked closely with speakers from diverse occupational backgrounds.
Awards &  •   Robert C. Byrd Scholarship, awarded to top 1% of U.S. students for academic excellence.
Interests  •   Rensselaer Medal, awarded to top 20,000 students worldwide for achievements in mathematics and science.
•   Interest in track & field, travel, photography, and oncology.Undergraduate Resume Sample
Matha Maddox
345 Infinity Drive  matha@mit.edu  My Street 
Cambridge, MA 02139  617-XXX-XXXX  My City, My Country
EDUCATION
Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT)  Cambridge, MA 
•  Candidate for a Bachelor of Science degree in Mathematics with Computer Science June 2013
•  Candidate for a minor in Management GP A: 4.6/5.0
•  Rele vant Coursework: Probability and Statistics, Algebra, Analysis, Discrete Math, Managerial Psychology Laboratory
EXPERIENCE
Telecommunications Company  P aris, France 
Operations Research Analyst  June 2010 – Present
•  Assessed financial risks involved with participating in online advertising-space exchanges
•  De vised bidding policies for auctions at the exchanges that led to victories three times out of five and built mathematical models 
around these policies to increase the company’s margin from online ad-spaces by 5%
MIT Sloan School of Management  Cambridge, MA 
Undergraduate Researcher  June 2010 – October 2010
•  Conducted experimental prediction markets with human and artificial intelligence to find the best tools to predict future events such as 
election-results or the stock market 
•  De veloped an experiment-procedure online that reduced bias by eliminating involvement of the experimenter and saved two hours 
and $200 per experiment 
MIT Center for Collective Intelligence  Cambridge, MA 
Undergraduate Researcher  June 2010 – October 2010
•  Conducted individual and group IQ/EQ tests on human subjects to formulate ways to measure and predict the performance of 
individuals working as part of a team and the efficacy of the team dynamic
•  Sa ved four hours of experiment-time per day by redesigning the experiment-procedure so that each experiment could be held with 
three fewer researchers and up to six experiments could be held at the same time
MIT Tech Callers  Cambridge, MA 
Caller  February 2010 – June 2010
•  Communicated with MIT alumni on behalf of the MIT Alumni Association and raised $5,000 in donations
LEADERSHIP
MIT Student Cultural Association  Cambridge, MA 
Treasurer  May 2010 – Present
•  Managed $10,000 worth of finances for a group of 400 students and raised $3,000 in funds for their events
•  Created an online system for reimbursements that made the process faster and reduced paperwork 
MIT Undergraduate Association  Cambridge, MA 
Member of Committee on Student Life  February 2011 – Present
•  Or ganized a week long convention of 3,000 students with activities geared towards improving health on campus
•  Link ed 376 freshmen to upperclassmen with similar career objectives in a one-on-one mentoring relationship
MIT International Science and Technology Initiatives  Milan, Italy and Cambridge, MA 
Advisor and Teacher  September 2010 – March 2011
•  T aught Mathematics and Physics to 500 high school students in Italy and advised teachers on inexpensive ways of making their 
lessons interactive that helped each school save up to $1300 a year
•  W orked with a group of 10 teachers and five principals from high-schools in Italy to prepare a report for the Italian Ministry of 
Education on how to make the education-system in Italy more hands-on and technology-oriented
The XYZ Newpress  My City, Country
Founder and Editor  October 2006 – May 2008 
•  Led a staff of 25 high-school students to develop the first English newspaper to be printed and distributed in My Country
• Con verted it to a trilingual newspaper and increased profitability by 25% in two years
SKILLS
Languages: Fluent - French and Native - Hindi 
Software: LATEX, GLPK, Microsoft Office
Activities: Member-Delta Psi Fraternity, Choreographer - MIT Dance Troupe, Journalist -The TechUndergraduate Resume Sample
Design Resume Sample
MIT Student
522 Commonwealth Ave, Boston, MA 02215 • 333-111-2222 • travelingstudent@mit.edu
EDUCATION
Massachusetts Institute of Technology 2012-2016
•  BS in Biological Engineering, GPA: 4.9/5 Cambridge, MA
• Sabancı Freshman Scholar, awarded visit to Sabancı University in Istanbul (2014)
•  Foreign study at Universidad Politécnica de Madrid in Biotechnology (Spring 2015)
Collège Saint-Remacle à Stavelot 2011-2012
•  Achieved Grande Distinction during foreign exchange in French-speaking Belgium Stavelot, Belgium
Southern Lehigh High School 2007-2011
•  Six week foreign exchange in Röhrnbach, Germany (Summer 2009) Center Valley, PA
EXPERIENCE
Undergraduate Researcher in Weiss Lab, MIT Synthetic Biology Center  Dec 2014 - Present
•  Create platform for biosensor development based on B-cell receptor Cambridge, MA
•  A warded provisional patent (2014)
•  Presented poster at 2015 BioMAN Summit (Cell & Gene Therapy Manufacturing)
•  Advisor for MIT iGEM 2015 team
Intern in Rojas Lab (Instituto de Salud Carlos III)  Mar 2015 - Jun 2015
•  Investigated role of Sur8 in nucleus by verifying binding to potential partners Madrid, Spain
•  Analyzed proteomics & microarray data to examine effects of Spry2 mutations
International Genetically Engineered Machine (iGEM) Participant  Jan 2014 - Nov 2014
•  Developed genetic circuit for Alzheimer’s disease detection and treatment  Cambridge, MA
•  Shared research through presentation, poster, and website
•  A warded gold medal in synthetic biology competition as part of MIT’s team
Undergraduate Researcher in Ploegh Lab (Whitehead Institute)  Sep 2013 - Jan 2014
•  Generated and purified VHH fragments against glycolytic enzymes  Cambridge, MA
•  Assayed effects of VHH fragments on enolase & pyruvate decarboxylase function
Summer School in Radiobiology (SCK-CEN)  Jul 2013
•  Studied cancer pathology, radiation treatment, and space microbiology Mol, Belgium
SKILLS
Laboratory Techniques : Cloning, SDS-PAGE/Western blot, mammalian tissue culture, transient transfection, protein 
purification
Programming : Familiarity with MATLAB, Python, and JavaLanguages : English (native), French (fluent), Spanish (fluent), German (basic), Portuguese (basic)
LEADERSHIP & SERVICE
Stop Our Silence  President (2015-2016), Co-President (2014-2015), Treasurer (2013-2014)
•  Organize slam poetry events and theatrical productions to promote sexual assault awareness
•  Raise over $1000 yearly for local women’s shelter
Freshman Associate Advisor (2013-2014, 2015-2016)
•  Advise first-year students in biology-focused seminar
Women in Science and Engineering (WiSE) Mentor (2013-2014)
•  Mentored high school girls in monthly sessions on topics in science and engineering
Member of Alpha Chi Omega (2014-Present)Global Resume Sample
Student Enviro Eng
Environment St.  Phone: 617-xxx-xxxx
Cambridge, MA 02139  Email: En viroEng@mit.edu
EDUCATION
Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) – Cambridge, MA
Master of Engineering in Enviromental Engineering  2014 (e xpected)
•  Rele vant Coursework:  Strategies for Sustainable Business, Systems Dynamics, Sustainable Energy, Applications of
Technology in Energy and the Environment, Design for Sustainability
Cornell University – Ithaca, NYBachelor of Science in Civil and Environmental Engineering
2010
•  GP A 3.57/4.00 ( Cum Laude), Chi Epsilon Honors Society
•  Semester Abroad, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Australia, 2004
•  Rele vant Coursework: Engineers for a Sustainable World, Sustainable Small-Scale Water Supplies, Solving
Environmental Problems for Urban Regions
EXPERIENCE
Camp Dresser & McKee (CDM) – Cambridge, MA
Environmental Engineer 2010-2012
Harv ard University Allston Campus
•  Deli vered sustainable technology assessment to compliment the campus’s low-carbon design strategy. Presented
findings to 50 employees through teleconference.
•  Managed the design de velopment of the utility system; wrote 4 chapters of 13 chapter report. Coordinated submittal
of design report and associated CAD drawings.
•  F acilitated a multi-discipline (6), multi-consultant (15) project team; led client, agency and subcontractor
communications; developed technical reports and $300,000 budget; managed staff of lower grade levels.
•  T echnical lead for the evaluation of on-site deep heat geothermal energy; performed a cost analysis and carbon
inventory. Wrote 5 of 8 chapters of the feasibility report.
•  One of 15 chosen from 4,000 emplo yees to be featured in the company’s annual report.
Sustainable W astewater Treatment Plant Design
•  Secured a Massachusetts Technology Collaborative (MTC) grant for the feasibility of converting fats, oils and
greases to biofuels to jointly reduce a sewer system nuisance and the plant’s reliance on fossil fuels.
•  Ev aluated sustainable features for a wastewater treatment plant upgrade including an assessment of stormwater
management, green building design and construction, and potential energy technologies targeted to reduce
operating costs. Recommendations included in 30% project design submittal.
City of Salem Water Conservation Planning
•  De veloped water conservation recommendations and a comprehensive implementation plan for the city’s
Engineering Department.
•  Recommendations embraced by the City Mayor . Presented findings to the community at a televised public meeting.
Sulabyia, Kuwait Wastewater Treatment Plant
•  Ev aluated the potential for innovative disposal options for reverse osmosis waste brine at the Sulabyia, Kuwait
wastewater treatment plant.
•  Specifically e valuated options for wetland treatment, saline farming, irrigation of turf fields, bioreactor landfill
water source, phosphorus recovery, and deep well injection.
Engineers for a Sustainable World – Ithaca, NY/La 34, HondurasProject Team Member
2009-2010
•  Designed a w ater treatment plant for the small village of La 34, a farming community of approximately 100
families near the northwest coast of Honduras.
•  T rained community members to self-sufficiently run the water treatment plant; plant is still operating successfully.
Cornell University – Ithaca, NY
Teaching Assistant/Laboratory Assistant 2009-2010
•  Helped 40 students design, b uild and automate miniature water treatment plants using LabVIEW software.
•  F acilitated a fluid mechanics laboratory including the setup and supervision of hydraulic experiments.
University of Southern California/Camp Dresser & McKee (CDM) – Los Angeles, CA
Sustainable Cities Undergraduate Fellow 2010
•  W orked with diverse team of students, academic and professionals to incorporate urban sustainability into the
development of a rapidly expanding Los Angeles School District school system.
•  Recommended sustainable features adopted in a prototype en vironmental impact report.
CERTIFICATIONS AND SKILLS
•Engineer in Training, April 2010 •  Eligible for Professional Engineering Licensing Exam in 2014
•  Hydraulic calculations using MathCAD •  W ater Distribution Modeling using H2OMap WaterMasters Resume Sample
Charles Meng
100 Charles St., Cambridge, MA 02139 ☞ 617.123.4567 ☞ csmeng@mit.edu ☞ csmeng.github.io
EDUCATION
Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT)  Cambridge, MA
Candidate for Master of Engineering in Computer Science; GPA: 5.0/5.0  Expected J une 2015
Bachelor of Science in Computer Science; GPA: 4.6/5.0  J une 2014
• Concentration: Human-Computer Interaction
• Master’ s Thesis: “Search Tools for Scaling Expert Code Review to the Global Classroom”
• Rele vant Coursework: User Interface Design, Computer Graphics, Design and Analysis of Algorithms,
Performance Engineering, Artificial Intelligence, Principles and Practices of Assistive Technologies,
Entrepreneurship Project, Computer Vision, Evaluating Education
EXPERIENCE
User Interface Design Group ; CSAIL, MIT  Cambridge, MA
Researcher  Oct. 2013–Pr esent
• Designing search tools to allo w teachers to give qualitative feedback beyond “correct” or “incorrect” to tens of
thousands of students’ code submissions.
• Building a search engine to increase ef ficiency of writing feedback to individual students.
• De veloping techniques to cluster student code so teachers may powergrade multiple students’ code at once.
Assistive Technologies ; MIT  Cambridge, MA
Student leader  F eb. 2014–Present
• Mentoring students in an MIT under graduate course in which teams design and build assistive software,
hardware, or mechanical devices for an individual in the community living with a disability.
• F ounding member of MIT’s first assistive technology hackathon, a two-day event based upon the MIT course.
Recruited five clients in the greater Boston area.
Introduction to Electrical Engineering and Computer Science ; MIT  Cambridge, MA
Teaching assistant to class of over 500 students  F eb. 2014–Present
• Manage lab assistants. Lectured to o ver 100 MIT undergraduates at a review session.
Middle East Education Through Technology (MEET)  Jerusalem, Israel
Curriculum developer  May–J uly 2014
• De veloped a 3-week curriculum to teach Israeli and Palestinian high-schoolers web programming and Django.
MIT International Science and Technology Initiative  Querétaro, Mexico
Curriculum developer and instructor  J une–July 2013
• Established a ne w computer education class tailored to Mexican street children, independently developed
curriculum, and taught class in Spanish.
The Server Labs  Madrid, Spain
Software engineering intern  J une–Aug. 2012
• Created a user interf ace to facilitate clients setting up a cloud-based virtual environment.
• Presented project in Spanish before a group of cloud computing professionals.
Affective Computing ; Media Lab, MIT  Cambridge, MA
Undergraduate researcher  J une–Dec. 2011
• Introduced a user interf ace for CardioCam, a low-cost and non-contact technology that calculates heart rate and
blood pressure using only webcam imagery.
SKILLS AND INTERESTS
• Django, WebDev Langugages (HTML, CSS, Javascript, jQuery), Python, C++, Java, MATLAB
• Group leader for MIT Varsity Track and Field pole vaulters
•  Spanish ☞ Hebrew ☞ Pole vaulting ☞ Gymnastics ☞ Travel ☞ MusicMasters Resume Sample
Joe Resume
77 Massachusetts Avenue  Phone: 617-253-XXXX
Cambridge, MA 02139  Email: XXX@mit.edu
EDUCATION
Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), Cambridge, MA
Masters of Science in Computer Science and Mechanical Engineering  GPA: 5.0/5.0  2013 (expected)
Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Madras, IndiaBachelor of Technology, Mechanical Engineering
  GPA: 9.5/10.0 2010
• Class Rank 1. ( Summa cum Laude) – secured a gold medal and three silver medals for overall excellence.
•  Published paper on manufacturing process control- Intl. Journal of Manufacturing Technology and Management 
• Standardized Test Score:  GRE – Verbal: 720/800, Quantitative: 800/800.
RELEVANT SKILLS
Software   Excel spreadsheets including Sensitivity Analysis, Monte Carlo simulation, and modeling uncertainties; C, C++, 
Matlab, Saphire (probabilistic analysis tool) MS Word and MS PowerPoint.
Courses   Coursework covering fundamentals of finance, economics, statistics, risk-benefit and decision analysis, Options in 
engineering, and engineering math.
Projects   Simulated stock prices using Hidden-Markov-Models (Course - Statistics); researched system design optimization 
techniques as part of a course portfolio (Course - Engineering Options). 
EXPERIENCE Osio Corporation, Boston, MA
Business Intern
 2011 – Present
• Developed Excel spreadsheet model for valuation of the start-up’s revenue prospects over the next ten years.
• Collaborated with management team in researching and identifying market segments for the new product.
• Currently working on evaluating strategies to be adopted for market deployment and future expansion.
X Corporation, City, StatePart-time Consultant
2011
• Optimized and redesigned the system to reduce manufacturing costs by 40% and system size by 20%.
•  Appraised final results of analysis to senior management at the client site and at MIT. Conducted weekly client update 
sessions
Center for Product Design, Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, IndiaIntern for Program in Teaching Innovation 
2010
• Deliberated with professors and fellow students on issues concerning barriers to student learning.
• Identified and specified strategies aimed at teaching innovations and translated them into actionable objectives. 
• Implemented a key objective by developing a flexible teaching tool for an advanced graduate course.
Bharat Electronics Limited, Bangalore, India Technical Analyst
2009
• Analyzed a structural component and identified its critical design parameters.
• Redesigned and optimized the component.
LEADERSHIP
• Chief Course Coordinator, MIT – Formulated the syllabus and developed the course content for an undergraduate design
engineering course. Organized lectures and led undergraduate assistants in conducting lab tutorials for 200 undergraduate
students.. 
• Innovative Teaching, MIT: Formulated new teaching approaches as part of an HP sponsored focus-group trial.
• Community Service Officer, MIT – Planned and organized community events for fostering greater interactions amongst
graduate students. Received Outstanding Officer Award for organizational excellence.
• Circulation Manager and News Reporter, Graduate Student News Magazine, MIT: Managed monthly distribution of 5000 copies of magazine on MIT campus. Popularized Cryptic Crosswords at MIT. 
•Mentor, IIT Madras – Mentored 15 freshmen during the senior year at IIT Madras.
INTERESTS AND ACTIVITIES
Story-Telling  ✥ Cryptic-Crosswords  ✥ Teaching Innovations  ✥ News Reporting  ✥ Tennis  ✥ Piano 
HONORS AND ACHIEVEMENTS
Government of India Fellowship (2006-2010)  ✥ Certificates of distinction for National Math, Physics and Chemistry  
Olympiads  ✥ Summa Cum Laude in high school  ✥ Ranked in top 0.3% for IITsMasters Resume Sample
Jean Upeg
Political Economy Ave., Cambridge, MA 02139  Phone: 617-xxx-xxxx • Eamil: Upe g@mit.edu
Education
Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), Cambridge, MA  F all 2013
Candidate for PhD in Urban Political Economy and Governance
Dissertation: out of Control? Local Democrac y Failure and Fiscal Control Boards
Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 2006
B.S.E., Civil Engineering with Architecture, summa cum laude
Experience
Community Innovators Lab, MIT, Cambridge, MA 2011-current
Project Manager, “Innovation and Equity Transform America:; Research Assistant
•  Authored federal taxation memo, coordinated authors, and wrote abstracts for memos to the Presidential Transition Team.
•  Drafted grant proposals and polic y memos. Participated in designing a model for equitable and comprehensive green retrofits.
Currently collaborating with local and national labor and community groups on implementation.
Department of Urban Studies and Planning, MIT, Cambridge, MA 2007-2011
Teaching Assistant
•  Conducted seminars, graded essays, and contrib uted to curriculum design. Classes taught totaled over 200 students and comprised 
a doctoral research seminar, undergraduate policy course, and three masters planning courses. Conceived and taught graduate
mini-seminar.
Brookings Institution, Washington, DC 2010-2011
Brookings Research Fellow
•  A warded first pre-doctoral fellowship for dissertation research granted by the Metropolitan Policy Program.
•  Created a dataset compiled from go vernment sources on municipal finances and socioeconomics. Programmed rare-events
regressions to measure the impact of fiscal control boards in small cities. Performed qualitative case studies on the control boards 
of Miami and Washington, DC through interviews with key actors, archival research, and evaluating financial reports.
•  Presented at tw o national academic conferences for Political Science (7,200 attendees) and Planning (1,000 attendees)
P3 Planning Practice Project, MIT, Cambridge, MA 2009-2010
Research Assistant
•  Researched four medium-size cities and their inno vative community planning organization. Profiled planners of small cities using
national survey data. Created and maintained the project website.
Urban Institute, Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center, Washington, DC 2007-2009
Research Associate II; Research Assistant
•  Analyzed tax polic y using statistical programs (SAS and Stata), with a focus on the distributional impact of national legislation, the 
interaction of tax policies and valuation of fringe benefits, and state code relevant to low-income residents.
•  Designed, launched, and maintained the Tax Policy Center website for press, policymakers, and researchers. Website received over
12,500 hits per day and was praised by Forbes, National Journal, and Business Week.
New York City Nonprofits Project, New York, NY 2005-2006
Research Assistant
•  De veloped a strategy to determine the economic impact of the non-profit sector on the city.
Professor Julian Wolpert, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 2005
Research Assistant
•  Wrote a memo detailing the spillo ver effects of non-profits and value of non-profit tax exemption, focused on Philadelphia.
Fellowships and Awards
National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellow, 3 years (2009-2012); MIT Presidential Graduate Fellow and Department 
Fellowship, 3 years (2009-2012); civil and Environmental Engineering Book Award and David W. Carmichael Prize, Princeton (2006).
Professional and Public Service
Student representative, PhD Committee, Department of Urban Studies and Planning, MIT (2009-2011); Graduate Resident Tutor, MIT (2010-2011); High school tutor, Maya Angelou Public Charter School, Washington, DC (2010-2011); Tax preparer for low income 
households, Community Tax Aid (2008) and Lincoln Park Baptist Church (2008); Washington, DC.
Publications and Conferences
2 first author; 10 co-author; 2 conference presentations; 1 first author manuscript under review (refereed).PhD Resume Sample
Mechanical Engineer
1177 Mass Ave.   •   Cambridge, MA 02139   •   Phone: 617-111-2222   •   Email: mecheng.edu
SUMMARY
Extensive experience with applying analytical and numerical methods (such as the finite element method) to 
model a broad range of systems from molecular structures to large-scale mechanical structures. Proven track record of creating and improving new computational methods to perform dynamic and static analysis of otherwise 
intractable engineering and biological systems. Strong ability to collaborate and work in a team environment on 
multi-disciplinary projects. Legally authorized to work in the United States (Green Card holder). 
EDUCATION
Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), Cambridge, MA, USA 
2011
Ph.D., Department of Mechanical Engineering.
•  Thesis: “Contrib utions to the analysis of proteins” under the supervision of Prof. Jones and Prof. Smith
•  GP A: 5.0/5.0 (Awarded an A+ grade for all courses. Only one or two people in each course get A+.)
Sharif University of Technology, Tehran, IRAN 2005
M.Sc., Department of Mechanical Engineering.
•  Thesis: “Online control of needle injection into soft tissue using the finite element method”
•  GP A: 18.62/20.0 (Ranked in top 5%)
University of Tehran, Tehran, IRAN 2003
B.Sc., Department of Mechanical Engineering.
•  GP A: 17.68/20.0 (Class Rank: 2)
SKILLS
• Computer:  Commercial finite element software programs: ADINA (founded and owned by my Ph.D.
and postdoctoral advisor, Prof. KJ Bathe), ABAQUS, ANSYS; MeshLab (a mesh processing program);
MATLAB; Fortran; AutoCAD; molecular viewers: PyMOL, VMD, UCSF Chimera; CHARMM (a molecular
dynamics program); Adobe Illustrator.
• Analytical: Finite element method; optimization; stochastic simulation: Langevin and Brownian
dynamics simulation; statistical analysis; multi-scale modeling; atomistic modeling; continuum modeling;
bioinformatics; biomechanics; computational biology; molecular biology; biophysics; solid mechanics; fluid
mechanics; controls.
• Language: English (fluent); Persian (native); Arabic (basic).
EXPERIENCE
Department of Mechanical Engineering, MIT, Cambridge, MA, USA Oct. 2011–current 
Postdoctoral Associate
•  Led project team that de veloped a coarse-grained finite element framework for the Brownian dynamics of
macromolecular proteins that are inaccessible to available molecular dynamics algorithms.
•  Created a model to calculate the dif fusion coefficients and Brownian dynamics of DNA origami structures as
part of a project in collaboration with researchers from MIT, Harvard, University of Michigan, Arizona State
University, and Max Planck Institute. No other models are currently available.
•  Member of team that de veloped a coarse-grained three-dimensional hydrodynamic model of semi-flexible
filaments that resulted in several orders-of-magnitude reduction in computational cost.
•  Collaborated with other engineers to impro ve a well-known implicit time-integration scheme that is widely
used in engineering problems and in numerous commercial software tools. The improved version of thescheme has already been implemented in ADINA.
Department of Mechanical Engineering, MIT, Cambridge, MA, USA 
Jan. 2007–Jun. 2011
Research Assistant
•  Impro ved a widely used eigenvalue solver to substantially reduce the computational cost of calculating
the eigen-solutions of large-scale engineering and bioengineering systems. The improved version of theeigenvalue solver is currently used in ADINA.
•  Made no vel discoveries into the shape and function of complex proteins, the results of which have been
included in comprehensive government and research databases (such as the Protein Data Bank) and utilizedby leading research companies.
•  De veloped a coarse-grained finite element framework for the diffusion coefficients of proteins.
Department of Mechanical Engineering, MIT, Cambridge, MA, USA F all 2007, Fall 2008, Fall 2010   
Teaching Assistant, “Finite Element Analysis of Solids and Fluids I” & “Mechanics and Materials I” 
•  Prepared and presented lectures and recitations, supported term projects, helped students with course
materials, and graded homework andPhD Resume Sample
Mechanical Engineer pg. 2
Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, USA  F all 2006
Teaching Assistant, “Thermodynamics I” 
•  Contrib uted to designing experiments for a new thermodynamics laboratory.
ITCEN Co. (Industrial & Technical Consulting Engineers Company), Tehran, IRAN  Mar . 2006–Sept. 2006
Senior Engineer
•  Designed the layout of production lines for a pipe manuf acturer.
Department of Mechanical Engineering, Sharif University of Technology, Tehran, IRAN  Sept. 2003–Dec. 2005
Research Assistant
•  Performed compression tests on bo vine liver and characterized its material properties using the genetic
algorithm and the finite element method. Developed an algorithm to obtain the optimal path initiation for the
needle insertion into bovine liver for biopsy and brachytherapy purposes.
SAPCO Co. (Supplying Automotive Parts Company), Tehran, IRAN  Summer 2001; Summer 2002
Intern
•  Analyzed ne wly designed and produced automotive parts using mechanical tests such as Engine Test,
Material Strength Test, etc.
HONORS AND A WARDS
MIT Outstanding Graduate Student Institute Award  (2010). This award was given to the top two graduate 
students at the Department of Mechanical Engineering at MIT. The department has more than 500 graduate 
students; NSF Fellowship for the GEM4-2010 program  (2010); Highly Distinguished Student of University 
of Tehran (1999–2003): A student who is in top 0.05% (out of ~500,000 applicants) in the nation-wide university 
entrance exam and his/her semester GPAs are above 17 out of 20.   
JOURNAL PUBLICATIONS
Mech Eng et al., “Three-dimensional implicit hydrodynamic model of semi-flexible filaments”, in preparation.
Mech Eng et al., “Diffusion coefficients of DNA origami structures”, in preparation.Mech Eng et al., “Brownian dynamics simulation of DNA origami structures”, in preparation.Mech Eng et al., “A finite element framework for Brownian dynamics simulation of proteins”, in preparation.
Mech Eng, A. A. Fedorov, E. V . Fedorov, S. Ono, F. Matsumura, S. C. Almo, & M. Bathe, “Structure, evolutionary 
conservation, and conformational dynamics of Homo sapiens fascin-1, an F-actin crosslinking protein”, Journal of 
Molecular Biology, 400 (2010), pp. 589-604.
Mech Eng,  M. T. Ahmadian, & F. Janabi-Sharifi, “Modeling, simulation, and optimal initiation planning for 
needle insertion into the liver”, Journal of Biomechanical Engineering-Transactions of the ASME , 132 (2010), p. 
041001 (11 pages).Mech Eng, M. Bathe, & K. J. Bathe, “The subspace iteration method in protein normal mode analysis”, Journal of 
Computational Chemistry, 31 (2010), pp. 66-74.
M. T. Ahmadian, Mech Eng,  & R. Abdollahpour, “A nonlinear viscoelastic modeling of brain and CSF
deformation under tumor expansion”, International Journal of Scientific Research, 16 (2006), pp. 425-428.M. T. Ahmadian, Mech Eng R. Abdollahpour, S. Sharifi Sedeh, & K. Navi, “Application of car active suspension
in vertical acceleration reduction of vehicle due to road excitation and its effect on human health”, International
Journal of Scientific Research, 16 (2006), pp. 429-434.M. T. Ahmadian, R. Abdollahpour, & Mech Eng, “Effect of tumor location and its growth on stress distribution in
the brain”, International Journal of Scientific Research, 16 (2006), pp. 523-527.
OTHER PUBLICATIONS
3 first-author journal abstracts; 14 conference papers.
ACTIVITIES
•  Sports: Soccer; table tennis; swimming; hiking; mountain climbing.
• Music: Singing.
Ph.D. Interested in Consulting
Rm. E39-305, M.I.T., 77 Mass Ave.  •  Cambridge, MA 02139  •  Phone: 617-XXX-XXXX  •  Email: imastudent@mit.edu
Education  MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY  Cambridge, MA
 Candidate for Ph.D. degree in Material Science & Engineering, June 2014  Used stochastic simulation 
techniques to gain new insights into polymer structure. Established collaboration with experimental group in the 
Mechanical Engineering Dept. Pursuing unique integrated approach to develop new molecular models better suited to designing optimal industrial processes.   GPA: 4.9/5.0 
Minor: Business Administration at the Sloan School of Management, MIT 
 Business Courses:  Management of Innovation and Technology, International Management, Entrepreneurship, 
Microeconomics, Macroeconomics, Management and Policy in the International Economy, Marketing, Finance Theory, Options and Derivatives, Investment Banking, Operations Research.
Master of Science in Chemical Engineering Practice, January 2009.
TRINITY COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY  United Kingdom 
Master of Engineering, June 2006  Class Rank: 2
 Bachelor of Arts with Honors in Natural Science and Chemical Engineering, June 2005  Class Rank: 1
Experience  INDUSTRY INTERNSHIPS 
MERCK PHARMACEUTICALS (Summer 2008)  West Point, PA
   Team Leader: Found systematic method to raise glass transition temperature of vaccines. This allowed a higher storage temperature for the vaccines. Generated $5million annual saving in refrigeration costs. 
DOW CHEMICALS (Summer 2007)  Plaquemine, LO
   Intern: Wrote software for simulating complex distillation processes, adopted throughout Dow Chemicals.
DOW-CORNING (September-November 2007)  Midland, MI
   Team Leader: Removed a bottleneck to allowing doubling of a plant’s capacity. $10million capital savings.
 UNITED KINGDOM ATOMIC ENERGY AUTHORITY (Summers, 2001-2005)  United Kingdom
    Intern:Worked for fluid mechanics groups on technical consulting projects for the petroleum industry. Frequently delivered presentations to clients. Incorporated new algorithms into pipeline simulation modules and achieved tenfold increase in speed. Developed strategies to reduce pipeline erosion. Improved reliability of flowrate measurement devices in oil pipelines to allow clients to better monitor throughputs.
Leadership   MIT PRESIDENT, STUDENT LEADERSHIP COUNCIL OF MATERIAL SCIENTISTS (2011 - present)
 Leader in group of 200 students that promotes collaboration between five major research universities. Organized 
videoconferences to allow students to share research ideas. Planning summer retreat to further student collaboration. Investigating ways to promote science and technology in secondary schools and the community.
 STUDENT REPRESENTATIVE, MIT MATERIAL SCIENCE & ENGINEERING DEPT. STUDENT 
AFFAIRS COMMITTEE (2011 - present)
Leading student / faculty discussion on ways to enhance student / advisor interaction. 
TEACHING ASSISTANT, MIT MATERIAL SCIENCE & ENGINEERING DEPT. (Fall semester 2010)
 Organized tutorials to clarify course material. Wrote instruction manual to help students use math software. 
Class scored 7% higher in final than any of the professor’s former classes.
U.K. COORDINATOR, EUROPEAN CLUB CAREER FAIR (2006)
Awards,  Winner of National Science Foundation Poster Competition  (1012); Sigma Xi Engineering Research 
Honors   Honors Society  (2010); Harvey Stern Fellowship, MIT (2009); Fox Prize for Outstanding Performance in 
Chemical Engineering, Cambridge University (2006); Verhaydn de Lancy Prize for Outstanding Contribution to Trinity College (2005); Mobil Prize for Best Performance in Chemical Engineering, Cambridge University (2005); Senior Scholarship for Outstanding Academic Performance, Trinity College, Cambridge (2004); Student Scholarship, United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority (2002-2006)
Activities
 Dancing (MIT Salsa Club), Classical Guitar, MIT Debating Club, MIT European Club Soccer TeamPhD Resume Sample
A.N. ALUM
123 Infinity Avenue, Cambridge, MA 02139, analum@alum.mit.edu, 617-XXX-XXXX
SUMMARY
Accomplished strategy and finance professional with extensive experience in health care, financial services, energy, and 
education. Proven track record of improving client and firm performance across a broad range of corporate, not-for-proft, 
and government organizations. Strong ability to manage senior-level relationships and cross-functional teams.
EXPERIENCE
MIT MEDIA LAB, Cambridge, MA, 2012-Present
• Co-led de velopment of virtual rehabilitation interface integrating clinical and home-based physical therapy.
• Intervie wed clinicians to determine key specifications required for effective treatment in home and clinical settings.
• Collaborated on proposal that w on $100,000 innovation grant to further develop technology.
XYZ PUBLIC CHARTER SCHOOLS, Washington, DC, 2011
• Led de velopment and initial launch of performance management system to improve operational and academic
excellence of network of ten schools with over 5,000 students, 500 staff, and $70 million operating budget.
GLOBAL INVESTMENT FIRM, New York, NY and San Francisco, CA, 2009-2011
Senior Associate, Global Analytics
• Managed financial analysis and due diligence for o ver $2 billion in private equity financing for investment acquisition
targets in transportation, energy, clean technology, and real estate sectors. Negotiated and oversaw contracts andrelationships with engineering, real estate, accounting, and investment banking advisory firms.
• Ev aluated strategic market opportunities in clean technology sector, including potential investments in wind turbine
technology and carbon markets. Firm subsequently invested in several carbon reduction projects.
• Deli vered presentations on strategic analysis, financial valuation, and due diligence of potential investments to Board
members and senior executives of Babcock & Brown, portfolio companies, and prospective investment targets.
• Streamlined in vestment review process firmwide, resulting in improved financial and risk analysis.
AN INVESTMENT BANK, New York, NY , 2002-2006U.S. Economist, Associate Director
• Collaborated with retail and institutional in vestor sales force to increase distribution of U.S. economics research
products that reached hundreds of thousands of clients. Advised large institutional investor clients on U.S. economicsforecasts and research products and conducted customized client research.
• Managed launch of ne w research products from concept to distribution across sales channels. Led writing, production,
and distribution of 200-page Data Decoder reference book, successfully positioned as flagship UBS research product
• Spearheaded inte gration of people, processes, and systems between PaineWebber U.S. Economics Team and UBS
Global Economics Team following merger. Completed full integration six months prior to all other Research Teamsand advised senior management on integration of remaining 150 PaineWebber Analysts.
WORLD BANK, Washington, DC, 2002-2003
Research Analyst, Development Economics Research Group
• Ev aluated capital structure and corporate governance of 4,000 firms in Indonesia, Korea, Malaysia, Philippines, and
Thailand before and after 1997 financial crisis to inform policy response.
• Prepared reports and presentations of surv ey findings for senior government officials, global business leaders, senior
World Bank officials, and international press. Organized conference in Bangkok for key Asian cabinet ministers and
World Bank officials to discuss findings.
• Designed and e valuated randomized trials of education programs across 300 schools in Kenya. Led 10-person team in
overhaul of data management process to improve accuracy and analysis of 20,000 student records.
EDUCATION
UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLV ANIA, Philadelphia, PA
The Wharton School, Master of Business Administration, Major in Finance. August 2008.
Graduate School of Education, Master of Science in Education, Major in Educational Leadership. May 2007
• Extensi ve experience in strategic planning and business development for organizations including Mastery Charter
Schools, Victory Schools, School District of Philadelphia, and Association for Sustainable Economic Development.
MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, Cambridge, MA
Bachelor of Science, Major in Economics. June 2000. GPA: 4.5/5.0
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
•Computer skills: Competency in Excel financial modeling, Powerpoint, Access, SQL, SAS, Windows, and Mac OS.
•Languages: Written and spoken fluency in Spanish. Conversant in Mandarin Chinese.
•International experience: Worked in Chile, Peru, Mexico, Thailand, and Kenya. Studies for one year in Chile.Alum Resume Sample
